README.md, before:

# Classroom Participation App

A real-time web application for facilitating classroom participation by allowing teachers to randomly select students who wish to answer questions.

## Features

- Teacher and student roles
- Real-time room-based participation
- Random student selection after a countdown
- Simple, responsive user interface

## How It Works

1. **Teacher Creates a Room:**
   - Teacher logs in and receives a unique room code
   - Teacher shares the room code with students

2. **Students Join:**
   - Students use the room code to join the teacher's room
   - Students appear in the teacher's participant list

3. **Question Flow:**
   - Teacher asks a question verbally and clicks "Ask a Question" in the app
   - Students who want to answer click "Raise Hand"
   - Teacher starts a 10-second countdown
   - After countdown, the app randomly selects one student from those who raised their hands
   - The selected student's name is highlighted for everyone to see

## Project Structure

This project is set up as a monorepo with separate frontend and backend directories:

```
classroom-participation/
├── frontend/              # React frontend application
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── JoinRoom.js      # Initial room joining component
│   │   │   ├── StudentRoom.js   # Student view component 
│   │   │   └── TeacherRoom.js   # Teacher view component
│   │   ├── styles/
│   │   ├── App.js               # Main application component
│   │   └── index.js             # Application entry point
│   └── package.json             # Frontend dependencies
│
├── backend/               # Node.js backend server
│   ├── server.js          # Socket.IO and Express server
│   └── package.json       # Backend dependencies
│
└── package.json           # Root package.json for monorepo
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or newer)
- npm or yarn

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies for both the frontend and backend:
   ```
   npm run install:all
   ```

3. Start the backend server:
   ```
   npm run start:backend
   ```

4. In a separate terminal, start the frontend development server:
   ```
   npm run start:frontend
   ```

## Deployment with Railway

This project is configured for deployment on Railway with separate services for the frontend and backend.

### Deployment Steps

1. Sign up at [Railway.app](https://railway.app/)

2. Create a new project from your GitHub repository

3. Add two services:
   - **Backend service:**
     - Set Root Directory to `/backend`
     - Railway will automatically use the settings in `backend/railway.json`
   
   - **Frontend service:**
     - Set Root Directory to `/frontend`
     - Railway will automatically use the settings in `frontend/railway.json`

4. Connect the services:
   - Get the URL of your deployed backend service
   - Set it as an environment variable in the frontend service:
     ```
     REACT_APP_BACKEND_URL=https://your-backend-service-url.railway.app
     ```

5. Your application should now be deployed with both frontend and backend services connected!

## Alternative Deployment Options

### 1. Render.com

Render offers a free tier for both static sites and backend services.

1. Deploy the frontend:
   - Create a new "Static Site"
   - Set Root Directory to `/frontend`
   - Set build command: `npm install && npm run build`
   - Set publish directory: `build`

2. Deploy the backend:
   - Create a new "Web Service"
   - Set Root Directory to `/backend`
   - Set build command: `npm install`
   - Set start command: `node server.js`

### 2. Netlify + Heroku

1. Deploy frontend to Netlify (free):
   - Set Root Directory to `/frontend`
   - Set build command: `npm install && npm run build`
   - Set publish directory: `build`

2. Deploy backend to Heroku:
   - Set Root Directory to `/backend`
   - Set up a `Procfile` with: `web: node server.js`

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend:** React.js
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express
- **Real-time Communication:** Socket.IO
- **Styling:** CSS

Commit message:

fix front build - update package-lock

README.md, after:

# Classroom Participation App

A real-time web application for facilitating classroom participation by allowing teachers to randomly select students who wish to answer questions.

## Features

- Teacher and student roles
- Real-time room-based participation
- Random student selection after a countdown
- Simple, responsive user interface

## How It Works

1. **Teacher Creates a Room:**
   - Teacher logs in and receives a unique room code
   - Teacher shares the room code with students

2. **Students Join:**
   - Students use the room code to join the teacher's room
   - Students appear in the teacher's participant list

3. **Question Flow:**
   - Teacher asks a question verbally and clicks "Ask a Question" in the app
   - Students who want to answer click "Raise Hand"
   - Teacher starts a 10-second countdown
   - After countdown, the app randomly selects one student from those who raised their hands
   - The selected student's name is highlighted for everyone to see

## Project Structure

This project is set up as a monorepo with separate frontend and backend directories:

```
classroom-participation/
├── frontend/              # React frontend application
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── JoinRoom.js      # Initial room joining component
│   │   │   ├── StudentRoom.js   # Student view component 
│   │   │   └── TeacherRoom.js   # Teacher view component
│   │   ├── styles/
│   │   ├── App.js               # Main application component
│   │   └── index.js             # Application entry point
│   └── package.json             # Frontend dependencies
│
├── backend/               # Node.js backend server
│   ├── server.js          # Socket.IO and Express server
│   └── package.json       # Backend dependencies
│
└── package.json           # Root package.json for monorepo
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or newer)
- npm or yarn

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies for both the frontend and backend:
   ```
   npm run install:all
   ```

3. Start the backend server:
   ```
   npm run start:backend
   ```

4. In a separate terminal, start the frontend development server:
   ```
   npm run start:frontend
   ```

## Deployment with Railway

This project is configured for deployment on Railway with separate services for the frontend and backend.

### Deployment Steps

1. Sign up at [Railway.app](https://railway.app/)

2. Create a new project from your GitHub repository

3. Add two services:
   - **Backend service:**
     - Set Root Directory to `/backend`
     - Railway will automatically use the settings in `backend/railway.json`
   
   - **Frontend service:**
     - Set Root Directory to `/frontend`
     - Railway will automatically use the settings in `frontend/railway.json`

4. Connect the services:
   - Get the URL of your deployed backend service (e.g., https://your-backend-service.railway.app)
   - Set it as an environment variable in the frontend service settings:
     ```
     REACT_APP_BACKEND_URL=https://your-backend-service.railway.app
     ```

5. If you encounter ESLint errors during the build process, you can add these environment variables to the frontend service:
   ```
   DISABLE_ESLINT_PLUGIN=true
   CI=false
   ```

6. Your application should now be deployed with both frontend and backend services connected!

## Alternative Deployment Options

### 1. Render.com

Render offers a free tier for both static sites and backend services.

1. Deploy the frontend:
   - Create a new "Static Site"
   - Set Root Directory to `/frontend`
   - Set build command: `npm install && npm run build`
   - Set publish directory: `build`

2. Deploy the backend:
   - Create a new "Web Service"
   - Set Root Directory to `/backend`
   - Set build command: `npm install`
   - Set start command: `node server.js`

### 2. Netlify + Heroku

1. Deploy frontend to Netlify (free):
   - Set Root Directory to `/frontend`
   - Set build command: `npm install && npm run build`
   - Set publish directory: `build`

2. Deploy backend to Heroku:
   - Set Root Directory to `/backend`
   - Set up a `Procfile` with: `web: node server.js`

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend:** React.js
- **Backend:** Node.js, Express
- **Real-time Communication:** Socket.IO
- **Styling:** CSS
